Keywords: observations, [SGD (logistic regression)](http://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/MAHOUT/Logistic+Regression), loss function, inference, ...

### TOC

* 3C (collaborative filtering, classification, and clustering)
  * recommender, supervised learning, and unsupervised learning.

### Machine Learning

ML is programming by relationships or patterns in data.
ML algorithms constructs mathematical models of data to discover patterns.
ML models are subsequently used to make decisions or predictions on unseen data.
e.g. we use ML models out of purchase, browsing, and search histories to predict if a buyer will purchase a product.

Why ML? handwriting & speech recognizations cannot be adequately solved by rule-based algorithms.
ML by patterns in data is much more effective/scalable when data/patterns are personalized, large in volume, or changing in time, 

### Supervised ML

We can formulate many of ML problems in terms of prediction of a desired target property of an object, e.g. if a website is e-commerce or not, given other known properties of the object (e.g. text, hyperlinks).
Supervised ML approach consists of two key phases - (1) training, and (2) prediction -- training or model building involves learning a model or patterns from historical data (e.g. postive & negative examples of e-commerce sites), and prediction uses the learned model to determine the target property.  

#### Classification vs. Regression

In classification problems, the target property takes discrete values (e.g., whether a website is e-commerce or not),  
while in regression problems, the target property is continuous (e.g., the demand forecast for a product). 

### Modeling WF

1. ML problem defintion
2. Data collection & integration
3. Data preparation & cleaning
4. Data visualization & analysis
5. Feature engineering
6. Model training & parameter tuning
7. Model evaluation
8. Model deployment

#### ML problem definition

##### Key Elements of Machine Learning Problem

Machine learning (ML) problems have three main elements: observation, feature, and label.

##### Observation

An observation (example, or instance) is the object that is being learned from and predicted on.
When detecting fraudulent orders placed on retail sites, orders are the objects which need to be 
determined as fraud or non-fraud, and each order constitutes an observation for the problem.
When classifying products into appropriate categories, each individual product is the object 
being trained on and scored, and constitutes a single observation for that problem.

##### Feature

Usually, an observation is described by a set of features, also known as attributes or variables.
e.g., the features of an order include the date/time, the product, the cost, the buyer, the shipping cost, and so on.
The features of a product are its title, description, price, brand, model #, average # of glance views per day, # of reviews, etc.
Features can have different data types: numeric (real valued), binary (two values), categorical (multiple values) or unstructured text.

##### Label

Label (or target property variable) is the value that we are trying to predict. Labels are a special requirement for Supervised ML, 
as we learn from the values in the historical data.

In fraud detection problem, the labels would be binary indicators in the historical data,
which indicate whether an order was determined to be fraudulent or not.
In product classification problem, the training data would contain products which have been categorized using rules or manual review.
The assigned category for each product would then constitute the label for this problem.

Note that labels must be assigned to observations in the historical data which is used for training and testing a model.
The training algorithm tries to learn the best model that can accurately predict the (known) label for maximum number of observations during the testing phase. When using the model for predictions, we only need observations with corresponding features without the labels. The model will then predict the label based on the learned parameters.

##### Is it an ML problem? 

It is important to remember that ML is not a silver bullet. There are certain use cases where simple solutions can be developed without using ML techniques.
For example, ML is not needed when the target property value to be determined can be obtained using simple mappings, rules, or computation which are relatively static.
For example, obtaining the address or phone number of a customer, calculating order volume or GMS value for each customer, or determining if a customer has a new account.
Similarly, ML is not required to model processes that are highly deterministic, such as the workflow of a customer of placing an order on retail sites.
Such a process has fixed, predetermined steps which can be programmed without any data-driven learning needed.

#### Data collection & integration

```bash
curl -o '/tmp/#1' -ksL 'http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/adult/{adult.data,adult.test}'
```

..

#### <a id="x">X</a>
#### y
## ABC
